# Lesson 1: Getting Started

The Braille Note Touch Plus is a “braille tablet.” It is an Android tablet
with a touch screen, volume buttons, and power button. However, it
also has a braille keyboard, braille display, and accessibility
settings on from the start. It also has programs made specifically for
the Braille Note Touch Plus, like a Word Processor and Email program.

## Conventions used in this Course

This course uses the following conventions and notations:

* The Braille Note Touch Plus will usually just be called “Braille
  Note Touch,” or “Braille Note.” These two aliases are short for
  “Braille Note Touch Plus.”
* Keyboard commands will be bolded. For example, “press **Space with
  dots 1-2-3**” means “hold down the space bar, and, while holding the
  space bar, press dots 1-2-3.”
* This course assumes that the Braille Note Touch Plus is used inside
  its case, with the hardware braille keyboard within, and the Touch
  screen underneath the hardware braille keyboard. These three
  enclosures I call layers: the case, the hardware braille keyboard,
  and the touch screen.
* When discussing the device’s physical attributes:
  * the “top” of the
  device is the surface of the case, with a pocket, or the braille
  keyboard area and braille display, or the touch screen area and
  braille display, depending on which “layer” of the device you are
  on.
  * The bottom of the device is the area of the device that contains
    the battery compartment, feet, and camera.
  * The back of the device is the side that contains the USB ports,
    HDMI ports, and the SD Card slot, while on the second layer.
  * The front of the device is the side with the thumb keys.
  * The left side of the device is the side which contains the volume
    buttons, power button, and USB C port on the second layer.
  * The right side is the side of the device which contains the
    multi-function button, headphone jack, and microphone jack on the
    second layer.

## About the Device

The Braille Note Touch has three layers when in the case, with the
case closed. The top layer is the case, which has a pocket closed by
Velcro which you can open to find the pocket. This can be used to hold
flash drives or other smaller technology or items. On other side of
the case are magnetic flaps, which open to expose the ports and
buttons of the Braille Note Touch. On the bottom of the device is the
battery compartment and the camera.

To open the case, find the front of the device by sliding your hand on
the top of the device towards you, passed the Velcro opening for the
pocket, and down onto the front side. There, you’ll find a flap to
open the case. The case opens up and away from you, like a pizza box.

Now, you’ve reached the second layer. This layer of the device
contains the a hardware braille keyboard, the braille display, and
gives access to the ports and buttons on the other sides of the
device.

The hardware braille keyboard contains eight keys in a row, along with
a long key at the front of the keyboard. These keys are the eight
braille keys: dots 7, 3, 2, 1, 4, 5, 6, 8; and the long key is the
Space bar. Note that dots 7 and 8 are misaligned from the other keys,
to provide a more ergonomic feel. Dots 7 and 8 also act as Backspace
and Enter, respectively, in almost all cases.

In front of the keyboard are buttons across the width of the braille
display. There are either 18 or 32 of these buttons. These buttons are
“cursor routing keys,” used to place the cursor over the selected
button. For example, if you press the cursor routing button over the
fifth cell of the braille display, the cursor would appear at the
fifth column, if it exists, of a line of text, or activate an item in
a menu or app, if an item exists and the fifth column of braille.

In front of the cursor routing buttons is the braille display. It
contains either 18 or 32 cells of refreshable braille. There is only
one line of braille, so it must be “scrolled” or “panned” to read all
text.

The keyboard, too, can be folded open towards the back of the device,
just like the case. Underneath the keyboard layer is the touchscreen,
which is the device itself. This can be taken out of its case if
needed. The touch screen is a flat surface, which can be used like a
Brailler, or used to navigate the device using swipe gestures and
taps.

If you move your hand to the top of the device, and slide your hand
towards you until you reach the edge of the device, and then feel down
the edge to the front of the device, you’ll find many buttons.
Starting from the left edge of the front side, there are:

* Previous
* Left
* Back
* Home
* Recent Apps
* Right
* Next

As you see from the list, the four “thumb keys,” called Previous,
Next, Left, and Right, are symmetrical. Previous is on the far left,
while Next is on the far right. Left is the second key from the left,
while Right is the second key from the right. The Previous key moves
to the previous item on the screen, while Next moves to the next item
on the screen. Left moves one display length of braille to the “left”,
while Right moves one display length of braille to the right.

The Back, Home, and Recent Apps keys perform Android functions. The
Back key performs the “Back” function, moving to the previous menu or
screen if possible. The Home button moves to the main menu from
anywhere. The Recent Apps, or “Overview” button moves to the list of
open apps. If you press it twice quickly, it will switch between the
two most recently used apps. From the Recent Apps overview, you can
also clear all apps.

If you move your hand around to the right side of the device, you’ll
find a button with a dot in the middle, which is the “actions” button.
This button performs different functions depending on which
application you’re in. Behind the button are two ports: a headphone
jack and a microphone jack.

Moving your hand around to the back edge of the device, from the right
side, you’ll feel an HDMI port, an SD Card slot, and a USB port on the
left side of the back edge of the device. Note that you’ll have to
have the braille keyboard covering the touchscreen to feel these ports
if the case is on.

Moving your hand to the left and down a little, you’ll find the USB C
port. This is for charging your device, or transferring data from a
computer to the Braille Note Touch, or from the Braille Note Touch to
the computer. Passed the USB C port is the power button. If this
button is pressed, it locks or wakes up the device. Above the power
button is an LED light that shows the status--on, locked, or off--of
the device. If it is held down, it summons a screen that can be used
to entirely power off the device. Below the power button are the
volume buttons. Volume Up is directly below the power button, while
Volume Down is below the Volume Up key.
