# Using the Setup Wizards

The Setup Wizards are the Braille Note Touch Plus tutorial which
starts up and teaches you how to use the device, while letting you set
preferences, and the Android setup wizard
, which lets you let up your Google account and other Android options.
In this lesson, we’ll go over both of these wizards.

## The Braille Note Touch setup wizard

When starting the Braille Note Touch Plus tutorial, the first thing
you’ll be greeted with is the most basic of navigation commands, the
right-most thumb key to go forward. This is the Next key. After you
press the thumb key, you’ll be asked to choose your language. When you
find the language you want, press a Cursor Routing key above it to
select it. If you don’t want the tutorial to start the next time you
start up the Braille Note Touch, find the checkbox regarding this
setting, and press a cursor routing button above it to check the box,
activating the setting. Using the thumb keys and the cursor routing
keys, find the “Next” button and activate it.

Now, the Braille Note gives an overview of the buttons and keys on the
device. Read this for a reminder and comprehensive description of the
keys. Press the Next button to move to the next section of the
tutorial, which discusses the physical keyboard. Go through the
section, finding each described key. Press “n” to move to the Next
button as instructed by the tutorial, and press Enter to activate the button.

Next is the Braille Preferences screen. Select the braille settings
you want, and choose the Next button when done. This section is
interactive, so you can choose the options you want.

After choosing the Next button, you are taught about Touch Braille.
Choose the Next button when done. You’ll then learn about Explore by
Touch. Choose the Next button to continue.

On the next screen, you’ll be taught about editing basics. Read the
information on that section, and Practice writing into edit boxes,
then navigate and activate the Next button.

The next section discusses computer braille. Read and interact with
this section, then choose the next button to continue. The next
section discusses eight-dot computer braille. Read the section and
move on to the next section. Now, you’ll be given an edit box to
practice writing computer braille, and given a list of commands to
enter punctuation as well. Practice writing in computer braille, then
press the Next button. After that, you’ve finished the tutorial, and
can begin setting up the Touch Plus with Google.

## Android Setup

After you’ve finished the tutorial, there is a button to open the
Google setup process. First, select your language, and choose the
Start button. Then, setup the Wifi network. Choose a network, then
enter the Wifi password, and choose Connect. After pressing the
Connect button, you can choose to copy data from another device, or
setup the device fresh.

Next, you’ll be asked to sign into your Google account. Type your
Email address (in computer braille), then find the password field and
type your password. You can also press Enter after entering your Email
address to move directly to the password box. After entering your
Email address and password, choose to sign in. Next, agree to the
Google terms of service.

Next, you are given the chance to enable device protection features.
You can choose to secure your device with a pattern, pin, or password.
When given the choice to enable secure boot, choose “no”.

Next, you’ll be given a screen detailing the use of the Google
Assistant. Choose “continue”, and then you’re given info about
Google’s services. You can choose to turn some of them off. Choose the
Accept button.

After choosing to accept Google services, you’ll be asked if you want
to turn on accelerated location. You can choose to do so or not. Then,
allow KeyUpdater to access storage, so that Humanware can update your
apps and device when updates are available.

## Unlocking the device

Once you’ve setup the device, you’re placed unto the Main Menu. We’ll
discuss that in the next lesson, bur for now, let’s focus on unlocking
the device. Press the power button once. This puts the device to
sleep, and locks it. This is the same as locking a phone or regular
tablet.

Now, press the power button again. You’ll hear the time announced, and
other information. Type the letter “u” without the quotes. You will
hear “unlock button.” Press Enter on that, and you’ll find the
password, pin, or pattern screen if you’ve set that up, or the Main
Menu if you haven’t.

Practice locking and unlocking the Braille Note Touch Plus. Being able
to unlock the device quickly will allow you to get back to work more
quickly. Also note that the device will automatically lock and go to
sleep after a set time. You can change this in Android settings.
