# Introduction

Welcome to this course on using Brailleblaster. This course will teach
the reader how to download, install, and use Brailleblaster from a
blindness perspective. In this first lesson, you will learn what
Brailleblaster is, what it can do for you, and how to download and
install it.

## About Braille Blaster

BrailleBlaster, abbreviated BB, is a _free_ Braille translator. As of
January 28, 2019, it
supports English, Spanish, and Cherokee languages in uncontracted, (grade
one), contracted, (grade two) and math braille translation from print in
several different file types.

## Downloading BrailleBlaster

You can download BrailleBlaster from
[here](https://www.brailleblaster.org/download.php) . Choose the type,
stable or beta, of release, you want to download. Enter your email
address in the provided form field, and then activate the submit button.
Then, choose the operating system for which you want to download Braille
Blaster.

- If your computer is made by Microsoft, HP, Dell, Acer, Asus, or
  other manufacturers, choose the Windows download.
- If your computer is made by Apple, running macOS, choose the Mac
  download.
- If your computer runs the Orca screen reader, or uses the Mate, KDE,
  or Gnome desktop, choose the Linux download.

Choose the Stable version radio button for a more stable experience, or
the Beta version for a less stable experience, but new features that are
being tested. For the case of this course, please choose the stable
version.

## Installing BrailleBlaster

After downloading the installer file for Brailleblaster, find the file,
or the download, and activate it to begin. On Windows, this means
pressing ENTER. On Mac, in Finder, this means pressing COMMAND+OPTION+L
to open the downloads folder, then Arrow down the list of files to find
the brailleblaster setup file or application, and press COMMAND+C to
copy the file. Navigate to your applications folder with
COMMAND+SHIFT+A, then press COMMAND+OPTION+V, or just COMMAND+V if that
fails, to paste it there.

For Windows, open the setup file from File Explorer's downloads folder.
Follow the setup instructions, using MODIFIER+B to read the setup
screens. At the end, press the Finish button to close setup, and
Brailleblaster will be on the desktop.
